**AtlasXplore** is a tool for visualizing and exploring large-scale genomic data. It is an open-source browser-based application that can be used to view and analyze data from a variety of sources, including whole-genome sequence data, transcriptome data, and other types of genomic data.
AtlasXplore includes a range of features and tools that make it easy to explore and analyze genomic data. Some of the key features of AtlasXplore include:
*User-friendly interface:* AtlasXplore provides a user-friendly interface that allows researchers to quickly and easily explore large data sets. It allows users to zoom in and out of the data, to view specific regions of interest, and to highlight or annotate particular features or patterns within the data.
*Data integration and comparison:* AtlasXplore makes it easy to integrate and compare data from multiple sources, and to view the data side by side. This allows researchers to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the data, and to identify relationships and patterns that might not be apparent when studying the data in isolation.
*Customization and annotation:* AtlasXplore allows users to customize the appearance and behavior of the tool, and to annotate the data with labels and other information. This can help researchers to organize and interpret the data more effectively, and to share their findings with others.
*Sharing and collaboration:* AtlasXplore includes tools and features that make it easy to share data and analysis results with other researchers. This can facilitate collaboration and help to accelerate the pace of scientific discovery.

In addition to its core features, AtlasXplore includes a range of additional tools that can help researchers to explore and analyze genomic data more effectively. Some of these tools include:
*Navigation:* AtlasXplore provides a range of navigation tools that allow users to quickly and easily move around within the data. These tools include the ability to zoom in and out of the data, to pan across the data, and to jump to specific regions of interest.
*Searching:* AtlasXplore includes tools that allow users to search for specific patterns or features within the data. This can be useful for identifying genes, motifs, or other elements of interest within the data.
*Leaping:* AtlasXplore includes a "leaping" feature that allows users to quickly jump between different regions of the genome. This can be useful for exploring large data sets and for identifying relationships and patterns within the data.
*Customizing* tracks: AtlasXplore allows users to customize the appearance and behavior of the tracks that are used to display the data. This includes the ability to change the color, height, and other visual characteristics of the tracks, as well as to adjust the scaling and other technical settings.
By using these tools in combination with AtlasXplore's core features, researchers can gain a more comprehensive understanding of the data and can identify interesting patterns and relationships within the data.

In AtlasXplore, adding data to the tool is a simple and straightforward process. There are several different ways that data can be added to AtlasXplore, depending on the specific type of data and the format in which it is available. Some common methods for adding data to AtlasXplore include:
*Uploading data files:* AtlasXplorex allows users to upload data files from their local computer or from other sources. This can be useful for working with data that is not publicly available, or for adding data that is not in a supported format.
*Using a data source URI:* AtlasXplore supports a range of data source URI schemes, which allow users to access data from a variety of sources. For example, users can add data from a URL, from a file on a server, or from a data store such as a database or cloud storage service.
*Using a track source URI:* AtlasXplore also supports track source URI schemes, which allow users to add data tracks that are generated on the fly by a server or other data source. This can be useful for working with large data sets that are too large to be stored locally, or for accessing data that is updated dynamically.

